README.rst, before:

ldap3-orm
=========

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/ldap3-orm.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ldap3-orm
    :alt: Latest Version

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/ldap3-orm.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ldap3-orm
    :alt: License

| ldap3-orm is an object-relational mapper for LDAP data based on the
  `ldap3 project <http://ldap3.readthedocs.io>`_


Home Page
---------

Project home page is https://github.com/cfelder/ldap3-orm


Documentation
-------------

Documentation is available at http://code.bsm-felder.de/doc/ldap3-orm


License
-------

The ldap3-orm library is open source software released under the
**LGPL-3.0+ license** (http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-3.0.html).


PEP8 Compliance
---------------

ldap3 is PEP8 compliant.


Download
--------

Package download is available at https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ldap3-orm.


Install
-------

ldap-orm can be installed from the Python Package Index using ``pip`` ::

   $ pip install ldap3-orm


Git repository
--------------

You can download the latest source at https://github.com/cfelder/ldap3-orm

Commit message:

Add documentation for package installation with specific requirements.
Change-Id: I17decc1c4eb49ddbcfa947bc032838850ace2ef3
Reviewed-on: https://code.bsm-felder.de/review/270
Reviewed-by: Christian Felder <webmaster@bsm-felder.de>

README.rst, after:

ldap3-orm
=========

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/ldap3-orm.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ldap3-orm
    :alt: Latest Version

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/ldap3-orm.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ldap3-orm
    :alt: License

| ldap3-orm is an object-relational mapper for LDAP data based on the
  `ldap3 project <http://ldap3.readthedocs.io>`_


Home Page
---------

Project home page is https://github.com/cfelder/ldap3-orm


Documentation
-------------

Documentation is available at http://code.bsm-felder.de/doc/ldap3-orm


License
-------

The ldap3-orm library is open source software released under the
**LGPL-3.0+ license** (http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-3.0.html).


PEP8 Compliance
---------------

ldap3 is PEP8 compliant.


Download
--------

Package download is available at https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ldap3-orm.


Install
-------

ldap-orm can be installed from the Python Package Index using ``pip`` or
``pip3``. ::

   $ pip3 install ldap3-orm

This will install ldap3-orm and its minimal requirements necessary for
importing the package and using it in your own projects. For installing
ldap3-orm with all possible requirements the following command can be used. ::

   $ pip3 install ldap3-orm[all]


Git repository
--------------

You can download the latest source at https://github.com/cfelder/ldap3-orm
