doc/install.rst, before:

Install ldap3-orm
=================

Download
--------

The ldap3-orm package can be downloaded at
https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ldap3-orm.

Install from PyPI
-----------------

ldap3-orm can be installed from the Python Package Index using ``pip`` or
``pip3``. ::

   $ pip3 install ldap3-orm

This will install ldap3-orm and its minimal requirements necessary for
importing the package and using it in your own projects. For installing
ldap3-orm with all possible requirements the following command can be used. ::

   $ pip3 install ldap3-orm[all]

For fine grained requirement installations the following commands may be
used::

   $ pip3 install ldap3-orm[ipython]

   $ pip3 install ldap3-orm[jupyter]


``pip``/``pip3`` will cope with package dependencies. Thus there is no need
to install requirements on your own as described below for source code
installations.

Git repository and code review
------------------------------

ldap3-orm is maintained in a git repository hosted at
`github <https://github.com/cfelder/ldap3-orm>`_.
In order to checkout a working copy use the following command::

  git clone https://github.com/cfelder/ldap3-orm.git

You will find all sources in the directory ``ldap3-orm`` pointing to the current
*master branch* which reflects the current *in development* version.

To refer to a specific release you should checkout a tagged version, e.g. ::

   $ cd ldap3-orm
   $ git tag
   v0.1.0

   $ git checkout tags/v0.1.0 -b release-v0.1.0

Install requirements using pip
------------------------------

You can install the requirements using ``pip``, especially into
your *virtual environment*. ::

  $ pip3 install -r requirements.txt

Depending on your setup you need to install further requirements listed below.

============================= =================================================
File                          Required for
============================= =================================================
``requirements-bin.txt``      Running the ldap3-orm scripts/programs
``requirements-doc.txt``      Building the Documentation
``requirements-jupyter.txt``  Running the ldap3-ipython jupyter kernel
``requirements-tests.txt``    Running the test suite
============================= =================================================

Install ldap3-orm from sources
------------------------------

If all requirements have been fullfilled you can install ldap3-orm using the
standard distutils/setuptools mechanism. Just run the following command in
the project's root folder. ::

  $ python setup.py install

Commit message:

Store/Update password in keyring
* make keyring optional
* add documentation

Change-Id: I89d5adf8d47b92fd3d09a27cf6943621214f4fe4
Reviewed-on: https://code.bsm-felder.de/review/308
Reviewed-by: Christian Felder <webmaster@bsm-felder.de>

doc/install.rst, after:

Install ldap3-orm
=================

Download
--------

The ldap3-orm package can be downloaded at
https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ldap3-orm.

Install from PyPI
-----------------

ldap3-orm can be installed from the Python Package Index using ``pip`` or
``pip3``. ::

   $ pip3 install ldap3-orm

This will install ldap3-orm and its minimal requirements necessary for
importing the package and using it in your own projects. For installing
ldap3-orm with all possible requirements the following command can be used. ::

   $ pip3 install ldap3-orm[all]

For fine grained requirement installations the following commands may be
used::

   $ pip3 install ldap3-orm[ipython]

   $ pip3 install ldap3-orm[jupyter]


``pip``/``pip3`` will cope with package dependencies. Thus there is no need
to install requirements on your own as described below for source code
installations.

Git repository and code review
------------------------------

ldap3-orm is maintained in a git repository hosted at
`github <https://github.com/cfelder/ldap3-orm>`_.
In order to checkout a working copy use the following command::

  git clone https://github.com/cfelder/ldap3-orm.git

You will find all sources in the directory ``ldap3-orm`` pointing to the current
*master branch* which reflects the current *in development* version.

To refer to a specific release you should checkout a tagged version, e.g. ::

   $ cd ldap3-orm
   $ git tag
   v0.1.0

   $ git checkout tags/v0.1.0 -b release-v0.1.0

Install requirements using pip
------------------------------

You can install the requirements using ``pip``, especially into
your *virtual environment*. ::

  $ pip3 install -r requirements.txt

Depending on your setup you need to install further requirements listed below.

============================= =================================================
File or module                Required for
============================= =================================================
``requirements-bin.txt``      Running the ldap3-orm scripts/programs
``requirements-doc.txt``      Building the Documentation
``requirements-jupyter.txt``  Running the ldap3-ipython jupyter kernel
``requirements-tests.txt``    Running the test suite
``keyring``                   keyring password backend configuration
============================= =================================================

Install ldap3-orm from sources
------------------------------

If all requirements have been fullfilled you can install ldap3-orm using the
standard distutils/setuptools mechanism. Just run the following command in
the project's root folder. ::

  $ python setup.py install
